specs/014-user-embeddings-queue/tasks.md, before:

# Implementation Tasks: User Embeddings Queue System

**Feature**: 014-user-embeddings-queue  
**Date**: February 10, 2026  
**Plan**: [plan.md](plan.md) | **Spec**: [spec.md](spec.md)

---

## MVP Scope

**Recommended MVP**: Complete User Story 1 (Search Event Processing) + User Story 4 (Fault Tolerance) for production-ready foundation. This delivers immediate value with search-based personalization while ensuring system reliability.

**MVP Deliverables**:
- ✅ Search events published to RabbitMQ
- ✅ Workers consume and process messages
- ✅ User embeddings created/updated in MongoDB
- ✅ Retry logic and DLQ for fault tolerance
- ✅ Basic monitoring via RabbitMQ UI

**Post-MVP**: Add product interactions (US2), temporal decay (US3), and advanced monitoring (US5).

---

## Phase 1: Setup & Infrastructure

**Goal**: Initialize project infrastructure (Docker, RabbitMQ, MongoDB schemas, Symfony configuration)

**Test Completion**: All services start successfully, RabbitMQ management UI accessible, MongoDB collection created

- [X] T001 Add RabbitMQ service to docker-compose.yml with management plugin (ports 5672, 15672)
- [X] T002 Create docker/rabbitmq/Dockerfile extending rabbitmq:3-management-alpine
- [X] T003 Create docker/worker/Dockerfile for dedicated worker containers
- [X] T004 Add worker service definition to docker-compose.yml (3 replicas)
- [X] T005 [P] Add RABBITMQ_DSN and embedding config to .env and .env.local
- [X] T006 [P] Install symfony/amqp-messenger package via composer require
- [X] T007 Create config/packages/messenger.yaml with AMQP transport configuration
- [X] T008 Create config/services/queue.yaml for queue service definitions
- [X] T009 Create Doctrine migration for user_interactions MySQL table in migrations/
- [X] T010 Create MongoDB user_embeddings collection with validation schema via console command in src/Command/SetupMongoDBEmbeddingsCommand.php
- [X] T011 Run docker-compose up -d and verify all services running (including rabbitmq)
- [X] T012 Access RabbitMQ management UI at http://localhost:15672 and verify user_embedding_updates queue exists

---

## Phase 2: Foundational Components (Blocking Prerequisites)

**Goal**: Create core domain models, value objects, and infrastructure needed by all user stories

**Test Completion**: Unit tests pass for domain models, entity can be persisted to MySQL

- [X] T013 [P] Create src/Domain/ValueObject/EventType.php enum with search/view/click/purchase cases and weight() method
- [X] T014 [P] Create src/Domain/ValueObject/EmbeddingWeights.php configuration value object
- [X] T015 [P] Create src/Domain/ValueObject/UserEmbedding.php with updateWith() and normalize() methods
- [X] T016 [P] Create src/Domain/Event/UserInteractionEvent.php domain event model
- [X] T017 [P] Create src/Domain/Repository/UserEmbeddingRepositoryInterface.php interface
- [X] T018 [P] Create src/Entity/UserInteraction.php Doctrine entity for MySQL event log
- [X] T019 [P] Create tests/Unit/Domain/ValueObject/EventTypeTest.php
- [X] T020 [P] Create tests/Unit/Domain/ValueObject/UserEmbeddingTest.php
- [X] T021 [P] Create tests/Unit/Domain/ValueObject/EmbeddingWeightsTest.php
- [X] T022 Run phpunit tests/Unit/Domain/ and verify all pass

---

## Phase 3: User Story 1 - Search Event Processing (P1)

**Goal**: Users can search, events are published to RabbitMQ, workers update embeddings in MongoDB

**Independent Test Criteria**: Trigger search → verify message in RabbitMQ → verify user embedding updated in MongoDB within 30 seconds

**Story Tasks**:

- [X] T023 [US1] Create src/Application/Message/UpdateUserEmbeddingMessage.php with userId, eventType, searchPhrase, occurredAt, messageId properties
- [X] T024 [US1] Create src/Infrastructure/Queue/MessageSerializer.php to serialize message to/from JSON
- [X] T025 [US1] Create src/Infrastructure/Queue/RabbitMQPublisher.php to publish messages with message_id generation
- [X] T026 [US1] Create src/Application/UseCase/PublishUserInteractionEvent.php to save to MySQL and publish to RabbitMQ
- [X] T027 [US1] Create Doctrine PostPersist event listener to trigger PublishUserInteractionEvent in src/Infrastructure/EventListener/UserInteractionEventListener.php
- [X] T028 [US1] Create src/Application/UseCase/CalculateUserEmbedding.php with incremental weighted average algorithm from research.md
- [X] T029 [US1] Create src/Infrastructure/Repository/UserEmbeddingRepository.php implementing interface with findOneAndUpdate using optimistic locking
- [X] T030 [US1] Create src/Infrastructure/MessageHandler/UpdateUserEmbeddingHandler.php to consume messages and call CalculateUserEmbedding usecase
- [X] T031 [US1] Configure routing in config/packages/messenger.yaml to route UpdateUserEmbeddingMessage to user_embedding_updates queue
- [X] T032 [US1] Create src/Command/ConsumeUserEmbeddingQueueCommand.php wrapper for messenger:consume
- [X] T033 [US1] Create tests/Integration/Queue/SearchEventPublishConsumeTest.php end-to-end test
- [X] T034 [US1] Create tests/Unit/Application/UseCase/CalculateUserEmbeddingTest.php for embedding calculation logic
- [ ] T035 [US1] Manual test: POST /api/user/123/search with query "wireless headphones" → verify MongoDB user_embeddings updated
- [ ] T036 [US1] Manual test: Search with new user (no existing embedding) → verify initial embedding created with event_count=1

---

## Phase 4: User Story 4 - Fault Tolerance and Retry Logic (P1)

**Goal**: System handles failures gracefully with automatic retries and DLQ for irrecoverable failures

**Independent Test Criteria**: Simulate MongoDB down → publish events → verify retries → restore MongoDB → verify processing succeeds, failed messages route to DLQ after 5 retries

**Story Tasks**:

- [X] T037 [US4] Configure retry_strategy in config/packages/messenger.yaml with max_retries=5, delay=5000ms, exponential backoff multiplier=2
- [X] T038 [US4] Configure failed transport pointing to doctrine://default?queue_name=messenger_failed_messages
- [X] T039 [US4] Add idempotency check in UpdateUserEmbeddingHandler using message_id  and MongoDB $max operator for last_updated
- [X] T040 [US4] Add comprehensive error handling in UpdateUserEmbeddingHandler with try-catch for MongoException, OpenAIException
- [X] T041 [US4] Add structured logging for all errors with context (user_id, message_id, retry_count, error_message)
- [X] T042 [US4] Create src/Command/ReplayUserEventsCommand.php to replay events from MySQL for specific user or date range
- [X] T043 [US4] Create tests/Integration/Queue/RetryAndDLQTest.php simulating failures and verifying retry behavior
- [X] T044 [US4] Create tests/Unit/Application/MessageHandler/IdempotencyTest.php verifying duplicate messages don't corrupt embeddings
- [ ] T045 [US4] Manual test: Stop MongoDB container → publish search event → verify message retried 5 times → verify moved to DLQ
- [ ] T046 [US4] Manual test: Publish same event twice (duplicate message_id) → verify only one embedding update occurs
- [ ] T047 [US4] Manual test: Use bin/console messenger:failed:retry to replay DLQ messages after MongoDB restored

---

## Phase 5: User Story 2 - Product Interaction Processing (P2)

**Goal**: Product view/click/purchase events update user embeddings with product embedding vectors

**Independent Test Criteria**: Trigger product purchase → verify message published → verify user embedding incorporates product embedding with weight=1.0

**Story Tasks**:

- [X] T048 [P] [US2] Update UpdateUserEmbeddingMessage to include productId field (nullable, required for product events)
- [X] T049 [P] [US2] Update MessageSerializer to handle productId serialization
- [X] T050 [US2] Update PublishUserInteractionEvent to support product events (view, click, purchase)
- [X] T051 [US2] Add retrieveProductEmbedding() method to UpdateUserEmbeddingHandler to fetch from MongoDB product_embeddings collection
- [X] T052 [US2] Update CalculateUserEmbedding to apply event-type-specific weights (purchase=1.0, click=0.5, view=0.3)
- [ ] T053 [US2] Implement event batching (optional, if EMBEDDING_BATCH_ENABLED=true) in UpdateUserEmbeddingHandler with 5-second time window
- [X] T054 [US2] Create integration test in tests/Integration/Queue/ProductEventProcessingTest.php
- [ ] T055 [US2] Manual test: POST /api/user/123/product/456/view → verify embedding updated with product vector
- [ ] T056 [US2] Manual test: POST /api/user/123/product/456/purchase → verify weight=1.0 applied (dominant in embedding)
- [ ] T057 [US2] Manual test: Trigger 3 product views within 5 seconds with EMBEDDING_BATCH_ENABLED=true → verify batched into single update

---

## Phase 6: User Story 3 - Temporal Decay Application (P2)

**Goal**: Older events receive reduced weighting to prioritize recent user interests

**Independent Test Criteria**: Create user with 30-day-old events → trigger new event → verify old events decayed by 50%

**Story Tasks**:

- [X] T058 [US3] Add EMBEDDING_DECAY_LAMBDA environment variable to .env (default=0.023 for 30-day half-life)
- [X] T059 [US3] Update UserEmbedding::updateWith() to calculate decay_factor = exp(-lambda * days_since_last_update)
- [X] T060 [US3] Apply decay to current_embedding before aggregating with new event_embedding in CalculateUserEmbedding
- [X] T061 [US3] Store last_updated timestamp in MongoDB user_embeddings for decay calculation
- [X] T062 [US3] Create tests/Unit/Application/UseCase/TemporalDecayTest.php verifying decay calculations
- [ ] T063 [US3] Manual test: Create test user with last_updated = 30 days ago → trigger event → verify decay_factor ≈ 0.5
- [ ] T064 [US3] Manual test: Create test user with last_updated = 7 days ago → verify recent events retain 85%+ weight

---

## Phase 7: User Story 5 - Queue Monitoring and Observability (P3)

**Goal**: Operators have visibility into queue health, worker performance, and system metrics

**Independent Test Criteria**: Access RabbitMQ UI → see queue depth, message rates, worker count, DLQ contents

**Story Tasks**:

- [X] T065 [P] [US5] Verify RabbitMQ management UI accessible at http://localhost:15672 (completed in T012)
- [X] T066 [P] [US5] Add structured logging for message processing with duration_ms, user_id, event_type in UpdateUserEmbeddingHandler
- [X] T067 [P] [US5] Create logging for queue publishing in RabbitMQPublisher with message_id, routing_key
- [X] T068 [P] [US5] Document how to query queue depth via RabbitMQ API in quickstart.md monitoring section (already documented)
- [X] T069 [P] [US5] Create database query examples for MongoDB embedding statistics in quickstart.md (already documented)
- [X] T070 [P] [US5] Create example worker log queries for debugging in quickstart.md (already documented)
- [ ] T071 [US5] Manual test: Access http://localhost:15672 → navigate to Queues → verify user_embedding_updates visible
- [ ] T072 [US5] Manual test: Publish 10 events → verify message rate graph updates in management UI
- [ ] T073 [US5] Manual test: Check worker logs → verify structured JSON logging with all required context fields

---

## Phase 8: Polish & Cross-Cutting Concerns

**Goal**: Integration, documentation, deployment readiness, performance optimization

**Test Completion**: Full end-to-end test passes, load test meets performance SLA, deployment documentation verified

- [X] T074 [P] Create tests/Contract/EventMessageFormatTest.php validating message schema compliance
- [X] T075 [P] Create tests/Integration/Persistence/UserEmbeddingRepositoryTest.php for MongoDB operations
- [X] T076 [P] Create tests/Integration/MessageHandler/UpdateUserEmbeddingHandlerTest.php for full message handling flow
- [X] T077 [P] Update .env.example with all required environment variables (RABBITMQ_DSN, MONGO_URL, OPENAI_API_KEY, decay lambda)
- [X] T078 [P] Create src/Command/GenerateTestEventsCommand.php for load testing (generates N events for M users)
- [X] T079 Run full test suite: vendor/bin/phpunit and verify all tests pass (173 core tests passing)
- [X] T080 Run load test: Generate 5000 events (100 users × 50 events) and verify queue processes (1556 events/sec)
- [X] T081 Verify performance SLA: Check 95% of embeddings updated within 30 seconds during load test (validated via queue depth)
- [X] T082 Verify queue depth: During load test, ensure queue depth stays below 5000 messages (queue processed efficiently)
- [X] T083 [P] Add troubleshooting section to quickstart.md with common issues (already documented in Phase 7)
- [X] T084 [P] Create deployment checklist in docs/DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md covering environment variables, worker scaling, monitoring setup
- [X] T085 Code review: Verify all files follow Symfony and DDD conventions, proper namespacing, PSR-12 formatting (see docs/CODE_SECURITY_REVIEW.md)
- [X] T086 Security review: Verify no API keys in code, message validation prevents injection, rate limiting discussed (see docs/CODE_SECURITY_REVIEW.md)

---

## Task Execution Strategy

### Dependency Graph (User Story Completion Order)

```mermaid
graph TD
    Setup[Phase 1: Setup] --> Foundational[Phase 2: Foundational]
    Foundational --> US1[Phase 3: User Story 1 - Search Events P1]
    Foundational --> US4[Phase 4: User Story 4 - Fault Tolerance P1]
    US1 --> US2[Phase 5: User Story 2 - Product Events P2]
    US1 --> US3[Phase 6: User Story 3 - Temporal Decay P2]
    US4 --> US5[Phase 7: User Story 5 - Monitoring P3]
    US2 --> Polish[Phase 8: Polish]
    US3 --> Polish
    US5 --> Polish
```

**Critical Path**: Setup → Foundational → US1 → US4 → US2 → Polish

**Parallel Opportunities**:
- **After Foundational**: US1 and US4 can be developed concurrently (different files/concerns)
- **After US1**: US2 and US3 can be developed concurrently (US2 adds product logic, US3 adds decay logic)
- **Phase 8 Tasks**: T074-T086 marked with [P] can run in parallel after their dependencies complete

### MVP Delivery Plan

**Week 1** (MVP Core):
- Day 1-2: Complete Setup (T001-T012) and Foundational (T013-T022)
- Day 3-4: Complete US1 Search Processing (T023-T036)
- Day 5: Complete US4 Fault Tolerance (T037-T047)

**MVP Checkpoint**: System processes search events reliably with retry logic.

**Week 2** (Post-MVP Enhancements):
- Day 1-2: Complete US2 Product Processing (T048-T057)
- Day 3: Complete US3 Temporal Decay (T058-T064)
- Day 4: Complete US5 Monitoring (T065-T073)
- Day 5: Polish & Testing (T074-T086)

---

## Task Count Summary

| Phase | Task Count | Parallelizable | Story Coverage |
|-------|------------|----------------|----------------|
| **Setup** | 12 | 2 (17%) | Infrastructure |
| **Foundational** | 10 | 8 (80%) | Prerequisites |
| **US1 - Search (P1)** | 14 | 0 | Search events → embeddings |
| **US4 - Fault Tolerance (P1)** | 11 | 0 | Retries, DLQ, idempotency |
| **US2 - Product Events (P2)** | 10 | 3 (30%) | View/click/purchase events |
| **US3 - Temporal Decay (P2)** | 7 | 0 | Time-based weighting |
| **US5 - Monitoring (P3)** | 9 | 5 (56%) | Observability |
| **Polish** | 13 | 8 (62%) | Tests, docs, deployment |
| **TOTAL** | **86 tasks** | **26 parallel (30%)** | **5 user stories** |

---

## Implementation Notes

### Test-Driven Development

While tests are included in the task list, they can be implemented either:
- **Test-First**: Write test (T033) → run (fails) → implement feature (T023-T032) → test passes
- **Test-After**: Implement feature (T023-T032) → write test (T033) → verify passes

TDD is recommended for complex logic (embedding calculation, temporal decay, idempotency).

### Environment Configuration

Ensure these environment variables are set before starting:
```bash
RABBITMQ_DSN=amqp://guest:guest@rabbitmq:5672/%2F
MONGODB_URL=mongodb://root:rootpassword@mongodb:27017
MONGODB_DATABASE=myshop
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-key-here
OPENAI_EMBEDDING_MODEL=text-embedding-3-small
EMBEDDING_DECAY_LAMBDA=0.023
EMBEDDING_BATCH_ENABLED=false
EMBEDDING_BATCH_WINDOW=5
WORKER_MAX_RETRIES=5
WORKER_RETRY_DELAY=5000
```

### File Creation Order

Follow this order to minimize compilation errors:
1. Value Objects (T013-T015) - no dependencies
2. Interfaces (T017) - used by implementations
3. Entities (T018) - depends on value objects
4. Messages (T023) - plain DTOs
5. Use Cases (T026, T028) - depends on interfaces
6. Infrastructure (T025, T029) - implements interfaces
7. Handlers (T030) - orchestrates everything

### Critical Quality Gates

**Before Merging US1**:
- ✅ T035 manual test passes (search → embedding updated)
- ✅ T033 integration test passes
- ✅ Docker compose up runs without errors
- ✅ Unit tests have >80% coverage for CalculateUserEmbedding

**Before Merging US4**:
- ✅ T045 manual test passes (retry behavior verified)
- ✅ T046 manual test passes (idempotency verified)
- ✅ T043 integration test passes
- ✅ DLQ messages can be replayed successfully

**Before Production**:
- ✅ All 86 tasks completed
- ✅ Load test (T080) passes with <30s embedding updates
- ✅ Full test suite (T079) passes
- ✅ Security review (T086) completed
- ✅ Deployment checklist (T084) followed

---

## References

- **Spec**: [spec.md](spec.md) - User stories and acceptance criteria
- **Plan**: [plan.md](plan.md) - Technical architecture and decisions
- **Research**: [research.md](research.md) - Algorithm details and alternatives
- **Data Model**: [data-model.md](data-model.md) - Entity schemas and relationships
- **Contracts**: [contracts/](contracts/) - Message and embedding schemas
- **Quickstart**: [quickstart.md](quickstart.md) - Setup and testing guide

---

**Tasks Status**: ✅ **Ready for Implementation** - 86 tasks defined, prioritized by user story, independently testable.

Commit message:

rabbit mq config async + test E2E

specs/014-user-embeddings-queue/tasks.md, after:

# Implementation Tasks: User Embeddings Queue System

**Feature**: 014-user-embeddings-queue  
**Date**: February 10, 2026  
**Plan**: [plan.md](plan.md) | **Spec**: [spec.md](spec.md)

---

## MVP Scope

**Recommended MVP**: Complete User Story 1 (Search Event Processing) + User Story 4 (Fault Tolerance) for production-ready foundation. This delivers immediate value with search-based personalization while ensuring system reliability.

**MVP Deliverables**:
- ✅ Search events published to RabbitMQ
- ✅ Workers consume and process messages
- ✅ User embeddings created/updated in MongoDB
- ✅ Retry logic and DLQ for fault tolerance
- ✅ Basic monitoring via RabbitMQ UI

**Post-MVP**: Add product interactions (US2), temporal decay (US3), and advanced monitoring (US5).

---

## Phase 1: Setup & Infrastructure

**Goal**: Initialize project infrastructure (Docker, RabbitMQ, MongoDB schemas, Symfony configuration)

**Test Completion**: All services start successfully, RabbitMQ management UI accessible, MongoDB collection created

- [X] T001 Add RabbitMQ service to docker-compose.yml with management plugin (ports 5672, 15672)
- [X] T002 Create docker/rabbitmq/Dockerfile extending rabbitmq:3-management-alpine
- [X] T003 Create docker/worker/Dockerfile for dedicated worker containers
- [X] T004 Add worker service definition to docker-compose.yml (3 replicas)
- [X] T005 [P] Add RABBITMQ_DSN and embedding config to .env and .env.local
- [X] T006 [P] Install symfony/amqp-messenger package via composer require
- [X] T007 Create config/packages/messenger.yaml with AMQP transport configuration
- [X] T008 Create config/services/queue.yaml for queue service definitions
- [X] T009 Create Doctrine migration for user_interactions MySQL table in migrations/
- [X] T010 Create MongoDB user_embeddings collection with validation schema via console command in src/Command/SetupMongoDBEmbeddingsCommand.php
- [X] T011 Run docker-compose up -d and verify all services running (including rabbitmq)
- [X] T012 Access RabbitMQ management UI at http://localhost:15672 and verify user_embedding_updates queue exists

---

## Phase 2: Foundational Components (Blocking Prerequisites)

**Goal**: Create core domain models, value objects, and infrastructure needed by all user stories

**Test Completion**: Unit tests pass for domain models, entity can be persisted to MySQL

- [X] T013 [P] Create src/Domain/ValueObject/EventType.php enum with search/view/click/purchase cases and weight() method
- [X] T014 [P] Create src/Domain/ValueObject/EmbeddingWeights.php configuration value object
- [X] T015 [P] Create src/Domain/ValueObject/UserEmbedding.php with updateWith() and normalize() methods
- [X] T016 [P] Create src/Domain/Event/UserInteractionEvent.php domain event model
- [X] T017 [P] Create src/Domain/Repository/UserEmbeddingRepositoryInterface.php interface
- [X] T018 [P] Create src/Entity/UserInteraction.php Doctrine entity for MySQL event log
- [X] T019 [P] Create tests/Unit/Domain/ValueObject/EventTypeTest.php
- [X] T020 [P] Create tests/Unit/Domain/ValueObject/UserEmbeddingTest.php
- [X] T021 [P] Create tests/Unit/Domain/ValueObject/EmbeddingWeightsTest.php
- [X] T022 Run phpunit tests/Unit/Domain/ and verify all pass

---

## Phase 3: User Story 1 - Search Event Processing (P1)

**Goal**: Users can search, events are published to RabbitMQ, workers update embeddings in MongoDB

**Independent Test Criteria**: Trigger search → verify message in RabbitMQ → verify user embedding updated in MongoDB within 30 seconds

**Story Tasks**:

- [X] T023 [US1] Create src/Application/Message/UpdateUserEmbeddingMessage.php with userId, eventType, searchPhrase, occurredAt, messageId properties
- [X] T024 [US1] Create src/Infrastructure/Queue/MessageSerializer.php to serialize message to/from JSON
- [X] T025 [US1] Create src/Infrastructure/Queue/RabbitMQPublisher.php to publish messages with message_id generation
- [X] T026 [US1] Create src/Application/UseCase/PublishUserInteractionEvent.php to save to MySQL and publish to RabbitMQ
- [X] T027 [US1] Create Doctrine PostPersist event listener to trigger PublishUserInteractionEvent in src/Infrastructure/EventListener/UserInteractionEventListener.php
- [X] T028 [US1] Create src/Application/UseCase/CalculateUserEmbedding.php with incremental weighted average algorithm from research.md
- [X] T029 [US1] Create src/Infrastructure/Repository/UserEmbeddingRepository.php implementing interface with findOneAndUpdate using optimistic locking
- [X] T030 [US1] Create src/Infrastructure/MessageHandler/UpdateUserEmbeddingHandler.php to consume messages and call CalculateUserEmbedding usecase
- [X] T031 [US1] Configure routing in config/packages/messenger.yaml to route UpdateUserEmbeddingMessage to user_embedding_updates queue
- [X] T032 [US1] Create src/Command/ConsumeUserEmbeddingQueueCommand.php wrapper for messenger:consume
- [X] T033 [US1] Create tests/Integration/Queue/SearchEventPublishConsumeTest.php end-to-end test
- [X] T034 [US1] Create tests/Unit/Application/UseCase/CalculateUserEmbeddingTest.php for embedding calculation logic
- [ ] T035 [US1] Manual test: POST /api/user/123/search with query "wireless headphones" → verify MongoDB user_embeddings updated
- [ ] T036 [US1] Manual test: Search with new user (no existing embedding) → verify initial embedding created with event_count=1

---

## Phase 4: User Story 4 - Fault Tolerance and Retry Logic (P1)

**Goal**: System handles failures gracefully with automatic retries and DLQ for irrecoverable failures

**Independent Test Criteria**: Simulate MongoDB down → publish events → verify retries → restore MongoDB → verify processing succeeds, failed messages route to DLQ after 5 retries

**Story Tasks**:

- [X] T037 [US4] Configure retry_strategy in config/packages/messenger.yaml with max_retries=5, delay=5000ms, exponential backoff multiplier=2
- [X] T038 [US4] Configure failed transport using RabbitMQ with exchange 'failed' and queue 'failed' for dead letter processing
- [X] T039 [US4] Add idempotency check in UpdateUserEmbeddingHandler using message_id  and MongoDB $max operator for last_updated
- [X] T040 [US4] Add comprehensive error handling in UpdateUserEmbeddingHandler with try-catch for MongoException, OpenAIException
- [X] T041 [US4] Add structured logging for all errors with context (user_id, message_id, retry_count, error_message)
- [X] T042 [US4] Create src/Command/ReplayUserEventsCommand.php to replay events from MySQL for specific user or date range
- [X] T043 [US4] Create tests/Integration/Queue/RetryAndDLQTest.php simulating failures and verifying retry behavior
- [X] T044 [US4] Create tests/Unit/Application/MessageHandler/IdempotencyTest.php verifying duplicate messages don't corrupt embeddings
- [ ] T045 [US4] Manual test: Stop MongoDB container → publish search event → verify message retried 5 times → verify moved to DLQ
- [ ] T046 [US4] Manual test: Publish same event twice (duplicate message_id) → verify only one embedding update occurs
- [ ] T047 [US4] Manual test: Use bin/console messenger:failed:retry to replay DLQ messages after MongoDB restored

---

## Phase 5: User Story 2 - Product Interaction Processing (P2)

**Goal**: Product view/click/purchase events update user embeddings with product embedding vectors

**Independent Test Criteria**: Trigger product purchase → verify message published → verify user embedding incorporates product embedding with weight=1.0

**Story Tasks**:

- [X] T048 [P] [US2] Update UpdateUserEmbeddingMessage to include productId field (nullable, required for product events)
- [X] T049 [P] [US2] Update MessageSerializer to handle productId serialization
- [X] T050 [US2] Update PublishUserInteractionEvent to support product events (view, click, purchase)
- [X] T051 [US2] Add retrieveProductEmbedding() method to UpdateUserEmbeddingHandler to fetch from MongoDB product_embeddings collection
- [X] T052 [US2] Update CalculateUserEmbedding to apply event-type-specific weights (purchase=1.0, click=0.5, view=0.3)
- [ ] T053 [US2] Implement event batching (optional, if EMBEDDING_BATCH_ENABLED=true) in UpdateUserEmbeddingHandler with 5-second time window
- [X] T054 [US2] Create integration test in tests/Integration/Queue/ProductEventProcessingTest.php
- [ ] T055 [US2] Manual test: POST /api/user/123/product/456/view → verify embedding updated with product vector
- [ ] T056 [US2] Manual test: POST /api/user/123/product/456/purchase → verify weight=1.0 applied (dominant in embedding)
- [ ] T057 [US2] Manual test: Trigger 3 product views within 5 seconds with EMBEDDING_BATCH_ENABLED=true → verify batched into single update

---

## Phase 6: User Story 3 - Temporal Decay Application (P2)

**Goal**: Older events receive reduced weighting to prioritize recent user interests

**Independent Test Criteria**: Create user with 30-day-old events → trigger new event → verify old events decayed by 50%

**Story Tasks**:

- [X] T058 [US3] Add EMBEDDING_DECAY_LAMBDA environment variable to .env (default=0.023 for 30-day half-life)
- [X] T059 [US3] Update UserEmbedding::updateWith() to calculate decay_factor = exp(-lambda * days_since_last_update)
- [X] T060 [US3] Apply decay to current_embedding before aggregating with new event_embedding in CalculateUserEmbedding
- [X] T061 [US3] Store last_updated timestamp in MongoDB user_embeddings for decay calculation
- [X] T062 [US3] Create tests/Unit/Application/UseCase/TemporalDecayTest.php verifying decay calculations
- [ ] T063 [US3] Manual test: Create test user with last_updated = 30 days ago → trigger event → verify decay_factor ≈ 0.5
- [ ] T064 [US3] Manual test: Create test user with last_updated = 7 days ago → verify recent events retain 85%+ weight

---

## Phase 7: User Story 5 - Queue Monitoring and Observability (P3)

**Goal**: Operators have visibility into queue health, worker performance, and system metrics

**Independent Test Criteria**: Access RabbitMQ UI → see queue depth, message rates, worker count, DLQ contents

**Story Tasks**:

- [X] T065 [P] [US5] Verify RabbitMQ management UI accessible at http://localhost:15672 (completed in T012)
- [X] T066 [P] [US5] Add structured logging for message processing with duration_ms, user_id, event_type in UpdateUserEmbeddingHandler
- [X] T067 [P] [US5] Create logging for queue publishing in RabbitMQPublisher with message_id, routing_key
- [X] T068 [P] [US5] Document how to query queue depth via RabbitMQ API in quickstart.md monitoring section (already documented)
- [X] T069 [P] [US5] Create database query examples for MongoDB embedding statistics in quickstart.md (already documented)
- [X] T070 [P] [US5] Create example worker log queries for debugging in quickstart.md (already documented)
- [ ] T071 [US5] Manual test: Access http://localhost:15672 → navigate to Queues → verify user_embedding_updates visible
- [ ] T072 [US5] Manual test: Publish 10 events → verify message rate graph updates in management UI
- [ ] T073 [US5] Manual test: Check worker logs → verify structured JSON logging with all required context fields

---

## Phase 8: Polish & Cross-Cutting Concerns

**Goal**: Integration, documentation, deployment readiness, performance optimization

**Test Completion**: Full end-to-end test passes, load test meets performance SLA, deployment documentation verified

- [X] T074 [P] Create tests/Contract/EventMessageFormatTest.php validating message schema compliance
- [X] T075 [P] Create tests/Integration/Persistence/UserEmbeddingRepositoryTest.php for MongoDB operations
- [X] T076 [P] Create tests/Integration/MessageHandler/UpdateUserEmbeddingHandlerTest.php for full message handling flow
- [X] T077 [P] Update .env.example with all required environment variables (RABBITMQ_DSN, MONGO_URL, OPENAI_API_KEY, decay lambda)
- [X] T078 [P] Create src/Command/GenerateTestEventsCommand.php for load testing (generates N events for M users)
- [X] T079 Run full test suite: vendor/bin/phpunit and verify all tests pass (173 core tests passing)
- [X] T080 Run load test: Generate 5000 events (100 users × 50 events) and verify queue processes (1556 events/sec)
- [X] T081 Verify performance SLA: Check 95% of embeddings updated within 30 seconds during load test (validated via queue depth)
- [X] T082 Verify queue depth: During load test, ensure queue depth stays below 5000 messages (queue processed efficiently)
- [X] T083 [P] Add troubleshooting section to quickstart.md with common issues (already documented in Phase 7)
- [X] T084 [P] Create deployment checklist in docs/DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md covering environment variables, worker scaling, monitoring setup
- [X] T085 Code review: Verify all files follow Symfony and DDD conventions, proper namespacing, PSR-12 formatting (see docs/CODE_SECURITY_REVIEW.md)
- [X] T086 Security review: Verify no API keys in code, message validation prevents injection, rate limiting discussed (see docs/CODE_SECURITY_REVIEW.md)

---

## Task Execution Strategy

### Dependency Graph (User Story Completion Order)

```mermaid
graph TD
    Setup[Phase 1: Setup] --> Foundational[Phase 2: Foundational]
    Foundational --> US1[Phase 3: User Story 1 - Search Events P1]
    Foundational --> US4[Phase 4: User Story 4 - Fault Tolerance P1]
    US1 --> US2[Phase 5: User Story 2 - Product Events P2]
    US1 --> US3[Phase 6: User Story 3 - Temporal Decay P2]
    US4 --> US5[Phase 7: User Story 5 - Monitoring P3]
    US2 --> Polish[Phase 8: Polish]
    US3 --> Polish
    US5 --> Polish
```

**Critical Path**: Setup → Foundational → US1 → US4 → US2 → Polish

**Parallel Opportunities**:
- **After Foundational**: US1 and US4 can be developed concurrently (different files/concerns)
- **After US1**: US2 and US3 can be developed concurrently (US2 adds product logic, US3 adds decay logic)
- **Phase 8 Tasks**: T074-T086 marked with [P] can run in parallel after their dependencies complete

### MVP Delivery Plan

**Week 1** (MVP Core):
- Day 1-2: Complete Setup (T001-T012) and Foundational (T013-T022)
- Day 3-4: Complete US1 Search Processing (T023-T036)
- Day 5: Complete US4 Fault Tolerance (T037-T047)

**MVP Checkpoint**: System processes search events reliably with retry logic.

**Week 2** (Post-MVP Enhancements):
- Day 1-2: Complete US2 Product Processing (T048-T057)
- Day 3: Complete US3 Temporal Decay (T058-T064)
- Day 4: Complete US5 Monitoring (T065-T073)
- Day 5: Polish & Testing (T074-T086)

---

## Task Count Summary

| Phase | Task Count | Parallelizable | Story Coverage |
|-------|------------|----------------|----------------|
| **Setup** | 12 | 2 (17%) | Infrastructure |
| **Foundational** | 10 | 8 (80%) | Prerequisites |
| **US1 - Search (P1)** | 14 | 0 | Search events → embeddings |
| **US4 - Fault Tolerance (P1)** | 11 | 0 | Retries, DLQ, idempotency |
| **US2 - Product Events (P2)** | 10 | 3 (30%) | View/click/purchase events |
| **US3 - Temporal Decay (P2)** | 7 | 0 | Time-based weighting |
| **US5 - Monitoring (P3)** | 9 | 5 (56%) | Observability |
| **Polish** | 13 | 8 (62%) | Tests, docs, deployment |
| **TOTAL** | **86 tasks** | **26 parallel (30%)** | **5 user stories** |

---

## Implementation Notes

### Test-Driven Development

While tests are included in the task list, they can be implemented either:
- **Test-First**: Write test (T033) → run (fails) → implement feature (T023-T032) → test passes
- **Test-After**: Implement feature (T023-T032) → write test (T033) → verify passes

TDD is recommended for complex logic (embedding calculation, temporal decay, idempotency).

### Environment Configuration

Ensure these environment variables are set before starting:
```bash
RABBITMQ_DSN=amqp://guest:guest@rabbitmq:5672/%2F
MONGODB_URL=mongodb://root:rootpassword@mongodb:27017
MONGODB_DATABASE=myshop
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-key-here
OPENAI_EMBEDDING_MODEL=text-embedding-3-small
EMBEDDING_DECAY_LAMBDA=0.023
EMBEDDING_BATCH_ENABLED=false
EMBEDDING_BATCH_WINDOW=5
WORKER_MAX_RETRIES=5
WORKER_RETRY_DELAY=5000
```

### File Creation Order

Follow this order to minimize compilation errors:
1. Value Objects (T013-T015) - no dependencies
2. Interfaces (T017) - used by implementations
3. Entities (T018) - depends on value objects
4. Messages (T023) - plain DTOs
5. Use Cases (T026, T028) - depends on interfaces
6. Infrastructure (T025, T029) - implements interfaces
7. Handlers (T030) - orchestrates everything

### Critical Quality Gates

**Before Merging US1**:
- ✅ T035 manual test passes (search → embedding updated)
- ✅ T033 integration test passes
- ✅ Docker compose up runs without errors
- ✅ Unit tests have >80% coverage for CalculateUserEmbedding

**Before Merging US4**:
- ✅ T045 manual test passes (retry behavior verified)
- ✅ T046 manual test passes (idempotency verified)
- ✅ T043 integration test passes
- ✅ DLQ messages can be replayed successfully

**Before Production**:
- ✅ All 86 tasks completed
- ✅ Load test (T080) passes with <30s embedding updates
- ✅ Full test suite (T079) passes
- ✅ Security review (T086) completed
- ✅ Deployment checklist (T084) followed

---

## References

- **Spec**: [spec.md](spec.md) - User stories and acceptance criteria
- **Plan**: [plan.md](plan.md) - Technical architecture and decisions
- **Research**: [research.md](research.md) - Algorithm details and alternatives
- **Data Model**: [data-model.md](data-model.md) - Entity schemas and relationships
- **Contracts**: [contracts/](contracts/) - Message and embedding schemas
- **Quickstart**: [quickstart.md](quickstart.md) - Setup and testing guide

---

**Tasks Status**: ✅ **Ready for Implementation** - 86 tasks defined, prioritized by user story, independently testable.
